Artificial Cloud Cover + Mist around Vanara Village that gently suppresses their spirit energy.




Native Life
Spirit World
Material World

Vanara Life
Spirit World
Material World


Vanara Philosophy
Vanara's hybrid biology makes them incredibly resilient and powerful. If they wanted they could use this power to subjugate most races they encounter. However the Vanara Tree god's evolved from a terrible crucible of constant war and competition that they were only able to escape through a commitment to cooperation and harmony which is the foundation of their


Waterfall Tower
The waterfall tower is a Spirit Dungeon accessed through a spirit portal behind a waterfall in the mountains.
The surface of water in the material world produces a fast growing but often brittle crystal material in the spirit world.
Because the waterfall tower occupies the same space as the waterfall, these crystals are constantly growing everywhere in the tower and create a constant caustic atmosphere for beings in the spirit world. This causes the MC to constantly lose their Spirit Energy as their subtle body uses up the energy to protect them from the effects of the crystals.

Usually the crystals grow and shatter and then disintegrate, but sometimes they form stable formations, in particle spherical beads of different sizes are stable and can be a useful material in the Spirit World, which does not have access to many materials with useful properties.

The tower was built around the waterfall as a processing facility for accruing these beads that naturally form from the waterfall, and many of the enemies found in the tower are there to help with the processing or to guard the facility from thieves or sabotage.
The things that look like waterfalls inside the dungeon are actually large flows of crystal beads that are being processed through the facility and may eventually be shipped from the tower to other parts of the spirit world. There are piles of crystal beads covering the ground in many places that obscure the ground underneath them and cause the MC to slip on them when not equipped with the Iron Boots or Cloudwalking Boots.

A lot of the specific elements of the story are not nailed down, but in the current iteration, the tower is overseen by a being called the River Dragon which used to be the Fertility God worshiped in the Fertility Temple on the river. This temple was destroyed when the Vanara ship crashed and the crater from the crash became a lake as the river filled it. The River Dragon,having an affinity for water in the Spirit World, took over the management of the Waterfall tower(the atmosphere of the tower is damaging to many spirit beings) after the River Temple was destroyed and a new Fertility Temple was constructed in the woods of the Vanara settlement.

Among other things, the materials from the Waterfall Tower are being used to construct a new Sky Palace in the Spirit World that the River Dragon plans to move into.


From https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monkey_King
"After several failed attempts at execution, Sun Wukong is locked into Laozi's eight-way trigram crucible for 49 days in order to be distilled into an elixir by samadhi fires; this will allow Laozi to regain his pills of longevity. The fire of the crucible is hot enough to burn beings of so much unspeakable power, they rival Buddha himself.

However, when the cauldron is opened 49 days later, the Monkey King jumps out, having survived by hiding in a corner marked by the wind trigram, where there was less fire. In fact, the heat from the samadhi fires have reinforced his bodily frame, making him stronger than ever before and impervious to greater damage. The heat also gives him a new ability; the Monkey King can now recognize evil with his new huǒyǎn-jīnjīng (火眼金睛, lit. 'fiery eyes and golden pupils'). Sun Wukong then proceeds to destroy the crucible and makes his way to Heaven's main chamber to confront the Jade Emperor and his senior advisors."

These eight trigrams are:
    Heaven, Earth, Water, Fire, Wind, Thunder, Mountain and Lake.

Order is:
    Earth - Navigate obstacles and rocks
    Mountain - Climb
    Water - Timed Bead flows (50 Jade check)
    Wind - Pits
    Thunder - Lightning barriers
    Fire - Fire turrets (Silver Ore check)
    Lake - Lava pools
    Heaven - NPC with "Iron Skin" reward

Spiral clockwise starting in southwest ending in the center
